Thousands of new coronavirus cases continue to emerge on college
campuses.

A New York Times survey of more than 1,600 American colleges and
universities — including every four-year public institution and
every private college that competes in N.C.A.A. sports — has
revealed at least 130,000 cases and at least 70 deaths since the
pandemic began. Most of the cases have been announced since students
returned to campus for the fall term. Most of the deaths were
reported in the spring and involved college employees, not students.

More than 35 colleges have reported at least 1,000 cases over the
course of the pandemic, and more than 230 colleges have reported
more than 100 cases. Around the country, some of the metro areas
with the most cases per capita in recent days — including La Crosse,
Wis.; State College, Pa.; and Gainesville, Fla. — have sizable
outbreaks at universities.

Brigham Young University ended visiting hours at its dorms and
stopped intramural sports as infection numbers grew. The University
of Colorado’s flagship campus shifted temporarily to online classes
in hopes of controlling an outbreak. And in Wisconsin, where college
towns are contributing to a statewide spike in cases, Lt. Gov.
Mandela Barnes gave a radio address pleading with students to wear
masks.

“College isn’t just about your coursework 24/7. Believe me, I get
it,” Mr. Barnes said. “But in order for you to participate in all
the things that make college so memorable, you all need to wear
masks anytime you leave the dorm room or your apartment.”

This data shows where the virus has been identified over the course
of the pandemic, not necessarily where it is prevalent now. The
Times has counted more than 123,000 additional cases at colleges
since late July; of those, more than 42,000 cases came since early
September. Tens of thousands of those infections have been reported
in recent days, but some universities just started reporting data,
and The Times recently contacted others for the first time.

Because colleges report data differently, and because cases
continued to emerge even in the months when most campuses were
closed, The Times is counting all reported cases since the start of
the pandemic.

Though some universities decided to hold most or all classes online
this fall, others reopened their campuses with extensive rules on
face coverings, social distancing and gatherings. Many universities,
hoping to quickly identify cases and prevent broader outbreaks, have
tested aggressively for the virus, detecting cases in some instances
that might otherwise have been missed.

With no national tracking system, colleges are making their own
rules for how to tally infections. While The Times’s survey is
believed to be the most comprehensive account available, it is also
a near-certain undercount. Among the colleges contacted by The
Times, many published case information online or responded to
requests for case numbers, but at least 160 others ignored inquiries
or refused to answer questions. More than 110 have reported zero
cases. The Times obtained case data through open records requests at
several public universities that would not otherwise provide numbers.

Given the disparities in size, reopening plans and transparency
among universities, this data should not be used to make
campus-to-campus comparisons. Some colleges subtract cases from
their tallies once people recover. Some report only tests performed
on campus. And some initially provided data but then stopped.
Officials at Washington State University, for instance, have not
provided data since late August, even though case numbers in the
surrounding area have spiked.

The Times is counting reported cases among university students and
employees in all fields, including those whose roles as doctors,
nurses, pharmacists or medical students put them at higher risk of
contracting the virus. At least four universities that have a broad
range of programs, including medical units, have reported dozens of
cases tied to health care. Those cases are listed above as a subset
of their universitywide totals.

Some universities did not provide data for cases at their medical
schools, hospitals or clinics. Some included those cases in their
campuswide counts, but did not specify how many. Other universities
that are primarily focused on medical training, or that reported a
small number of cases tied to clinical programs, are listed in the
main table on this page with an asterisk.
